So I spent a few minutes using the builder to add new assets and build out this page.
And so far I kind of have something very very simple kind of have that quote I used our PDA portfolio
as a guide to kind of how to build out this page and what images to use.
So that's already kind of been determined and I'm sprinkling a little bit of description throughout
instead of having one big old description.
I can kind of have some photos that go along with it.
So it feels like there's a mixture of photos and text to read as you kind of scroll down through each
one.
So all the way down to the bottom of the Web site of course you do want to have too many at this point
you just need to stop and you know we can always if you feel like your project needs a really really
really long page describe it all.
Sometimes having the use of video is not a bad idea at all to have video as a way to help really describe
your course without them having to continually scroll scrolls role.
So we're going to create a extra little promo video for one of our projects in an upcoming bonus lesson
so you can go and check that out if you want to skip ahead.
So just kind of using this portfolio builder I'm not going to get into too much detail about how to
use it.
Actually it's pretty intuitive.
You can click here you can add images text and you can reorder though the order of everything as well
so you can add images text photo grids you can even bring in Lightroom photos audio video you can embed
YouTube videos as a way to add your videos.
Of course social icons and of course a contact form which we all need on our portfolio and you can easily
arrange these by hovering over any element here and then clicking on this edit icon and going down to
reorder page content.
And this is kind of your big plan.
So this lays out all the different things on your particular project page and you can sit there and
you can reorder these however you wish.
So you can kind of have you see your whole layout here so you can have a nice plan of how everything
looks and flows.
So that's just one project.
Let me go ahead and go back to the home page of course now that we finished the project we need to find
a really good cover photo for that.
So we need to probably edit and crop this particular one right here so I can just go click on the edit
and go to edit cover image.
You can show whatever you'd like.
You can even bring in one of your other project photos if you feel like that really tells the project
better.
So we can kind of have that have that wow image what's the most important photo to put on your cover.
That's how you get a really grab people.
I think this is nice because it's clean and we have a lot of thumbnails you're going to have a lot of
business business going on.
So choosing more clean thumbnails might be a good idea.
It's going to click on done.
That's going to update.
And so there's our first project when go ahead and add actually like the cover for the second project
and we can go and add all of that and go ahead do our second project or a third or fourth or fifth or
six.
Go ahead and load all these and kind of see what this final portfolio will look like.
So what about a bio page on here that's going to be created very similar.
We're gonna go ahead and add a new page
of course it's going to give you some basic layout options I think it'd be really need to do kind of
a profile pic on the right with a little description on the left so it's going to click on that.
This will be about me because bio sounds a little impersonal and we've already done a lot of this hard
work already.
We already have this developed from our PDA portfolio.
Let's go ahead and get that nice statement highlight quote.
Make that a little bit bigger.
I'm going to be adding a button.
I think having a button here kind of a call to action you're on a bio page.
Let's have some kind of call to action button.
Work together contact me let's get together find a quote all these kind of buttons can kind of help
have some kind of action for that user or viewer to take after they read your beautifully well-written
bio and they've seen your picture always have some kind of call to action or send them to the contact
page where they'll be able to contact you or have that right there below just to make it easy.
It is adding a text box and we have everything we need here in our bio go and scroll up to our bio.
We can decide to use the third person bio on the Web site if we feel like that works a little bit better
in this portfolio it's really up to you.
We're going to try the third person bio here
and we have to do some significant little edits to the text and typography.
It's going to kind of highlight this and go ahead make it what we've been making everything which is
our Bitton Sands was trial lighter weight to light and make it a lot smaller and this is we're having
a little bit more of a reduced bio for a web digital environment.
I know we kind of had a longer one for PBF portfolio which is more of a formal document for a Web site
bio.
I would probably even cut as much as you can just say less with more I'd probably cut a few more lines
of type here.
Try to get it to a decent size.
So now let's add.
Let's go and change your name here.
We can even add our logo instead so we can go ahead and delete this and let's add our logo because that's
going to look really nice and what's great about this space is we can add our nice seal or circular
logo here.
You know look a little bit more professional
it's change the margin here and a little more padding
it's nice whitespace helps.
Everything look a little bit more professional.
So let's add a little headshot so there's a headshot.
Added I would say this is a very nice clean professional bio if I were to arrive on this person's web
site I would take them incredibly seriously.
I could scroll down here I can even click on the work together.
I can go down the social media they're giving me something to kind of click on.
I got a nice big bold photo here.
I think this looks great as a bio.
So now we have an about me.
We have our work we have a contact page where we can add a form on that contact page or some way to
to have them contact you we have kind of our other social media icons.
We even have a flutter at the bottom that has kind of our all rights reserved and we have six different
items here so you see how clean this is.
Let's go and preview the site and see how clean it is.
We don't need a lot of junk on our portfolio.
There it is we're on the Web site.
You can scroll over find the titles.
It's very easy to use and that's it.
We're not offering rows and rows and rows of projects.
It's nice and clean.
I feel like if I'm visiting this Web site I'm not overwhelmed.
I can click on one project and I can get a lot more detail that way if I want to find out more detail.
So there's kind of the landing page I have a little quote up at the top.
Everything's nice and readable.
This is nothing fancy there's not a whole lot of major design work going on here and this is all very
very basic and I know kind of put this together in about a half hour or so so you don't have to spend
a ton of time putting together a nice web site portfolio.
Let's go ahead and go back.
Of course there's always the ability to add video we're going to do a bonus video next we're going to
be able to switch out our theme and add a video driven portfolio for those who want to use a video real
or want to show off your projects.
You can also embed them like we did in this project at the end and better YouTube video you can upload
it to YouTube and get the embed code and you can be able to embed that on any Web site where you could
switch your themes at anytime and I'll automatically populate for you.
So if we wanted to switch to maybe this lug weak lug wig theme we can go ahead and click and it's going
to automatically populate.
That's one of the big benefits to this type of Web site so you can look I can all I have to do is switch
my logo out to make sure I have white type instead of dark.
But other than that I really really like this presentation.
This looks actually a lot better.
So scrolling down we have just six very simple projects here and that's it.
Look on nice and simple that is.
And so I would just need to do some work lightening that up.
I could even change this background to blue and maybe have a white logo that would look really nice
too.
So it's very easy to switch your themes and find out which one you want and it will automatically populate
with all the content that you have.
So if we wanted to have one that had the headline driven thing or an image driven thing let's do that.
Marta click on that kind of see how that looks.
So this would be good of course I'd have to change all that text out but this would be good you could
actually put a video I believe back here are photo and have it be driven with the headline and then
you scroll down to your content so you'd see all the wide variety of templates and options and it's
very very very quick to put together.
That's probably one of the big benefits to using Adobe Portfolio as your web builder of course you need
to have a subscription to access this but I don't pay anything for my portfolio.
I don't I don't have a professional domain name linked up.
I just kind of use the one that's that's here that you're seeing right now but you can easily link went
up if you go to Settings you can buy a domain name off GoDaddy or any other domain seller and you can
link up a professional domain name so that you don't have to have a portfolio dot Adobe slash something.
It could be your you know graphic design business or your photography business or whatever name that
you have for your freelance creative business.
So I wanted to go over that real quickly of course I can't dive into all the little details or this
would be the longest class ever but there's so many different options I wonder to really kind of go
in a little more detail on that one because this is one that I personally prefer and really like to
use because it's made for creative portfolios.
It's designed for this.